# DeepONet for Full Waveform Inversion

This repository contains DeepONet codes for the 'Leveraging Deep Operator Networks (DeepONet) for Acoustic Full Waveform Inversion (FWI)'

## Abstract:
<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Full Waveform Inversion (FWI) is an important geophysical technique considered in subsurface property prediction. It solves the inverse problem of predicting high-resolution Earth interior models from seismic data. Traditional FWI methods are computationally demanding. Inverse problems in geophysics often face challenges of non-uniqueness due to limited data, as data are often collected only on the surface. In this study, we introduce a novel methodology that leverages Deep Operator Networks (DeepONet) to attempt to improve both the efficiency and accuracy of FWI. The proposed DeepONet methodology inverts seismic waveforms for the subsurface velocity field. This approach is able to capture some key features of the subsurface velocity field. We have shown that the architecture can be applied to noisy seismic data with an accuracy that is better than some other machine learning methods. We also test our proposed method with out-of-distribution prediction for different velocity models. The proposed DeepONet shows comparable and better accuracy in some velocity models than some other machine learning methods. To improve the FWI workflow, we propose using the DeepONet output as a starting model for conventional FWI  and that it may improve FWI performance. While we have only shown that DeepONet facilitates faster convergence than starting with a homogeneous velocity field, it may have some benefits compared to other approaches to constructing starting models. This integration of DeepONet into FWI may accelerate the inversion process and may also enhance its robustness and reliability.
</p>


## Dataset:
We considered the data generated by [Deng et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.02926) for training and testing of the neural network model. The training and testing datasets considered can be downloaded from [OpenFWI](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.02926).

## Trained model
The trained weights and biases can be downloaded from this [DropBox](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/toielc1m50ck07azuiamz/AEPkdont5pGml6WBKr_ZKsE?rlkey=paz3hp17eiuu0a1cs42hjg2os&st=osv34tkx&dl=0).
The code is written using Tensorflow 2.

## Guideline to use the code

run file main.py

### Requirements

- tensorflow
- numpy
- time
- scipy
- argparse
- sys

### Load model and data

Download the trained model and the normalization scale from the Dropbox mentioned above\
Download the dataset from the OpenFWI. The link is given above

- Load model parameters in the main.py file \
W_b_dict = np.load('PATH TO Weight_bias.npy', allow_pickle='True')

- Load the normalization scale in the dataset.py file\
br_scale = io.loadmat('PATH TO branch_input_scale.mat')

- Load the data in the dataset.py file\
data_station = np.load('PATH to seis2_1_'+str(k)+'.npy')  &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; # Load the seismic trace \
data_vel = np.load('PATH to vel2_1_'+str(k)+'.npy')      &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; &emsp; # Load the velocity field (true) corresponds to the seismic trace


The dataset.py also does the data processing, like normalization, minibatch, etc.

The DeepONet.py contains the class DeepONet, which is the DeepONet architecture.

The model_save.py will save the results with the true velocity field in "/Output/Case_'+str(Case)" in a .mat file.

## Cite the paper
<pre>
@article{Nath_2025_Leveraging_DeepONet_FWI,
  title={Leveraging Deep Operator Networks (DeepONet) for Acoustic Full Waveform Inversion (FWI)},
  author={Nath, Kamaljyoti and Shukla, Khemraj and Tsai, Victor C and Waheed, Umair bin and Huber, Christian and Alpak, Omer and Chen, Chuen-Song and Lu, Ligang and St-Cyr, Amik},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.10720},
  year={2025}
}
</pre>
